DOCS-9940: Serverless Monitoring for Azure Functions (#27294)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/serverless/azure_functions/_index.md

---
title: Tracing Azure Functions
---

## Overview
Azure Functions

<!-- TODO: some more preamble -->

> This page explains how to collect traces from your Azure Functions. To collect metrics, install the [Datadog Azure integration][6].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains how to collect traces, trace metrics, runtime metrics, and custom metrics from your Azure Functions. To collect additional metrics, install the [Datadog Azure integration][6].
```

## Setup

{{< programming-lang-wrapper langs="nodejs,python" >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="nodejs" >}}
1. **Install dependencies**. Run the following commands:
   ```shell
   npm install @datadog/serverless-compat
   npm install dd-trace
   ```

   If your Azure Functions use a version of Node.js earlier than v18, ensure that you use a [compatible version of `dd-trace`][1].

>    To use [automatic instrumentation][2], you must use `dd-trace` v4.48+ (v4 release line) or v5.25+ (v5 release line).

Reviewer: In the last week the v4 tracer release line status was updated to end of life. I think we can remove any references to the v4 release line and using versions of Node.js earlier than 18and instead just mention using v5.25+ for auto instrumentation.

   Datadog recommends pinning the package versions and regularly upgrading to the latest versions of both `@datadog/serverless-compat` and `dd-trace` to ensure you have access to enhancements and bug fixes.

2. **Start the Datadog serverless compatibility layer and initialize the Node.js tracer**. Add the following lines to your main application entry point file (for example, `app.js`):

   ```js
   require('@datadog/serverless-compat').start();

   // This line must come before importing any instrumented module. 
   const tracer = require('dd-trace').init()
   ```

   [1]: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-trace-js?tab=readme-ov-file#version-release-lines-and-maintenance
   [2]: /tracing/trace_collection/automatic_instrumentation/?tab=singlestepinstrumentation
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="python" >}}
1. **Install dependencies**. Run the following commands:
   ```shell
   pip install datadog-serverless-compat
   pip install ddtrace
   ```

>    You must use `ddtrace` v2.19+.

Reviewer: Can we use the same language here that we use for Node?

> To use automatic instrumentation, you must use ddtrace v2.19+

   Datadog recommends using the latest versions of both `datadog-serverless-compat` and `ddtrace` to ensure you have access to enhancements and bug fixes.

2. **Initialize the Datadog Python tracer and serverless compatibility layer**. Add the following lines to your main application entry point file:

   ```python
   from datadog_serverless_compat import start
   from ddtrace import tracer, patch_all

   start()
   patch_all()
   ```

{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

3. **Deploy your function**.

4. **Configure Datadog intake**. Add the following environment variables to your function's application settings:
   ```
   DD_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
   DD_SITE={{< region-param key=dd_site code="true" >}}
   ```
   - Set `DD_API_KEY` to your [Datadog API key][1].
   - Set `DD_SITE` to {{< region-param key=dd_site code="true" >}}. (Ensure that your correct [Datadog site][2] is selected in the drop-down on the right side of this page.)

> 5. **Correlate traces with metrics by setting tags**. You can collect metrics from your Azure Functions by installing the [Datadog Azure integration][6]. To correlate these metrics with your traces, configure the following tags as environment variables. You can add custom tags as `DD_TAGS`.
> 
>    ```
>    DD_ENV="<ENVIRONMENT>"
>    DD_SERVICE="<SERVICE_NAME>"
>    DD_VERSION="<VERSION>"
>    DD_TAGS="<KEY_1:VALUE_1>,<KEY_2:VALUE_2>"
>    ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Unified Service Tagging**. You can collect metrics from your Azure Functions by installing the [Datadog Azure integration][6]. To correlate these metrics with your traces, first set the `env`, `service`, and `version` tags on your resource in Azure. Then configure the following environment variables. You can add custom tags as `DD_TAGS`.

    ```
    DD_ENV="<ENVIRONMENT>"
    DD_SERVICE="<SERVICE_NAME>"
    DD_VERSION="<VERSION>"
    DD_TAGS="<KEY_1:VALUE_1>,<KEY_2:VALUE_2>"
    ```
```

## View traces in Datadog

In Datadog, navigate to the [Trace Explorer][4] page and search for the service name you set in the `DD_SERVICE` environment variable

<!-- TODO: maybe some more here -->

> You can also view traces on the [Serverless > Azure Functions][5] page. This view is enriched with telemetry collected by the [Datadog Azure integration][6].

Reviewer: What do you think about a [What's next?](https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/aws_lambda/installation/python/?tab=datadogcli#whats-next) section like we have for AWS Lambda where we link to other pages that explain how to view traces in the trace explorer, serverless page, etc.?

## Enable debug logs

You can collect debug logs for troubleshooting. To configure debug logs, use the following environment variables:

`DD_TRACE_DEBUG`
: Enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) debug logging for the Datadog Tracing Library. Defaults to `false`.

>   **Values**: `true`, `false` 

Reviewer: What about linking to this page for tracer debug logs?
https://docs.datadoghq.com/tracing/troubleshooting/tracer_debug_logs/#enable-debug-mode

`DD_LOG_LEVEL`

> : Sets logging level for the Datadog Serverless Agent. Defaults to `info`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Sets logging level for the Datadog Serverless Compatibility Layer. Defaults to `info`.
```

  **Values**: `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`, `critical`, `off`

## Enable other features

### Trace metrics

[Trace metrics][3] are enabled by default. To configure trace metrics, use the following environment variable:

`DD_TRACE_STATS_COMPUTATION_ENABLED`
: Enables (`true`) or disables (`false`) trace metrics. Defaults to `true`.

  **Values**: `true`, `false`

### Correlate logs and traces

> <!-- TODO: to be continued -->

Reviewer: I think we can drop this for now while we work on more logging capabilities

---

> title: Tracing Azure Functions

Reviewer: Maybe title should be `Install Serverless Monitoring for Azure Functions` to be in line with https://docs.datadoghq.com/serverless/aws_lambda/installation?

   ```js
   require('@datadog/serverless-compat').start();

   // This line must come before importing any instrumented module. 
   const tracer = require('dd-trace').init()
   ```

3. (Optional) **Enable runtime metrics**. See [Node.js Runtime Metrics][2].

4. (Optional) **Enable custom metrics**. See [Metric Submission: DogStatsD][3].

[1]: /tracing/trace_collection/automatic_instrumentation/?tab=singlestepinstrumentation
[2]: /tracing/metrics/runtime_metrics/nodejs/?tab=environmentvariables
[3]: /metrics/custom_metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/?code-lang=nodejs
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< programming-lang lang="python" >}}
1. **Install dependencies**. Run the following commands:
   ```shell
   pip install datadog-serverless-compat
   pip install ddtrace
   ```

   To use [automatic instrumentation][1], you must use `dd-trace` v2.19+.

   Datadog recommends using the latest versions of both `datadog-serverless-compat` and `ddtrace` to ensure you have access to enhancements and bug fixes.

2. **Initialize the Datadog Python tracer and serverless compatibility layer**. Add the following lines to your main application entry point file:

   ```python

>    from datadog_serverless_compat import start

Reviewer 2: Thanks, @duncanpharvey, I appreciate you jumping in! Resolving this convo then 🫡

   from ddtrace import tracer, patch_all

   start()
   patch_all()
   ```

> 3. (Optional) **Enable runtime metrics**. See [Node.js Runtime Metrics][2].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. (Optional) **Enable runtime metrics**. See [Python Runtime Metrics][2].
```

4. (Optional) **Enable custom metrics**. See [Metric Submission: DogStatsD][3].
[1]: /tracing/trace_collection/automatic_instrumentation/?tab=singlestepinstrumentation
[2]: /tracing/metrics/runtime_metrics/python/
[3]: /metrics/custom_metrics/dogstatsd_metrics_submission/?code-lang=python
{{< /programming-lang >}}
{{< /programming-lang-wrapper >}}

3. **Deploy your function**.

4. **Configure Datadog intake**. Add the following environment variables to your function's application settings:
   ```
   DD_API_KEY=<YOUR_API_KEY>
   DD_SITE={{< region-param key=dd_site code="true" >}}
   ```
   - Set `DD_API_KEY` to your [Datadog API key][1].
   - Set `DD_SITE` to {{< region-param key=dd_site code="true" >}}. (Ensure that your correct [Datadog site][2] is selected in the drop-down on the right side of this page.)

5. **Configure Unified Service Tagging**. You can collect metrics from your Azure Functions by installing the [Datadog Azure integration][6]. To correlate these metrics with your traces, first set the `env`, `service`, and `version` tags on your resource in Azure. Then, configure the following environment variables. You can add custom tags as `DD_TAGS`.

    ```

>     DD_ENV="<ENVIRONMENT>"

Reviewer 2: Just want to double check that these environment variables use quotation marks, but the ones in the previous step don't?
